NEW:
1. give animals memory of water sources and food sources
2. should hydration be used in the same way as nutrition? or should it not provide energy, and instead only give debuffs when lacking?
11. for now change fights not to involve health, but rather when a predator is in range of prey, it dies. predator on predator will not be allowed

14. Gene mutation only considers genes to be within interval <0, 1>
    - right now sense_range is set at start to be between <80, 180> and if a mutation happens it gets clamped down to 1
    - should genes always be in range <0, 1>, and them to then influence characteristics? probably yes

15. Finalize animals genes, and their influence on characteristics

16. create a GUI for crafting simulation runs
    - animals   -> number of herbivores/carnivores
    - map   -> average temperature, average moisture
            -> average nutrients / total nutrients (with map point 1 and 2 are mutually exclusive)
    - scenarios (part of the simulation will be about seeing creates evolve to a shifting climate)
            -> ice age
            -> radioactive fallout
            -> droughts
            -> immense food_regrow periods
            -> etc.

17. make it so that animals do not have to calculate closest water source/food crop every tick

SPECULATIVE:
9. handle consumption of vegetables/prey with a small "eat_radius" area instead of handling this manually? -> might increase performance?
    - possible downside is accidental consumption when for example running away from a predator

12. make water tiles into detectable objects?
13. aggregate joined water tiles into water bodies? could help animals store info about water bodies, on big maps might be useful.. very speculative


DONE:
3. collision layers -> hunters collide with hunters and prey. prey collides with prey and vegetables
    - prey collides with hunter, prey and vegetables so that they can detect each other and reproduce
4. export game in standalone executalbve
5. export game in --headless
7. try reducing physics updates relative to game speed per second
8. enable physics interpolation -> godot 4.3
10. animals seem to be confused when SATED, check their wander mechanics in this instance


ABANDONED:
6. disable collisionshape from animal, keep detection area only 
    - characterbody2d is "detectable", but it requires collisionshape2d to specify its size -> cannot remove collisionshape without sacrificing _on_area_entered













1. Life is about balance between energy, food and hydration. So all animals need to balance these values accordingly.
Animals feel free to use their energy during the day, to allow themselves to search for food/hydration, or
evade predators. An animal will prioritize satisfying its most lacking value, meaning that whenever an animal goes hungry it will 
search for food untill its hunger value goes above a certain threshold. This behaviour will be interrupted only by predators, or
the fact that in search of satisfying a value, the other value went below a critical threshold, thereby putting the animal in danger 
if it doesn't change course immediatly. 

2. Refactor of animal genes:
Class Genes will include all the genes that can be passed on to their descendants, leaving some animal traits such as age, ..., as animal variables.
Gene additions: 
-Genes should be made to influence the behaviour of animals in varying ways
-

4. Animals can see every animal in their line of sight. Predators will try to sneak up as close to their prey as they can before they are noticed.
Animals will send signals to a set radius around them based on a percentage chance (to make noise), and all animals within this radius will then 
notice said animal. Therefore a predators movement can be characterised as sneak/stalk untill noticed

5. To breed is to survive and evolve, and since wolfs of this world are not pack animals, they need to have a way to search and find mates.
One part of this process is the extent of their wandering that would increase their chances to meet another wolf. Another would be how much
importance does the wolf put on actively trying to find a mate. In sparsely populated areas this might need to go up, if the wolfs want even 
a chance of meeting up.
For herbivores (pack animals) it will be of much less import, since they preffer to be in herds. They will therefore want for a means of picking 
the suitable male, within their congregation. This could be simply represented as "dominance" - or named as any one specific example of it - that 
could be represented by a variable that includes a price to pay(energy or some such).
Addend: Animals can be more or less herd loving, no stereotyping here. Also, not sure about how to pick partners atm, so for now they are the closest possibility.

6. Animals hold memories about water sources that they visited, places where they encountered an abundance of food in the past, or places where they
encountered danger (in terms of predators). These memories can be used to augment an animals "wander" mechanic, so as to not just blicnly search within their 
vicinity whenever they grow thirsty/hungry. If an animal is seeking to satisfy an urge will first look localy, and if no adequate solution is found will 
turn to its' memories for better guidance. Memories can be inherited, inheritance of these memories should also be guided by a variable within the animals' 
genome.. also memories can be gained from other animals under certain(as of now unknown) factors. 
6a. Memories have an additional value ascribed to them, namely stress_factor -> which influences the animals behaviour in many ways.. such as:
	1. Animals with low stress function better, but are slower to react to the world around them
	2. When stress is high animals will tend to air on the side of caution, and when an unknown source of sound (for example) is introduced, will respond by
	going straight into their flight_mode (instead of their low stress freeze_mode meant for assesing the source -> look in direction to ascertain whether its'
	a predator or a peaceful "friend")
	
7. Map modifications:
	1. Introducing different habitats to allow for more diversification in an animals traits. (example is camouflage, where an animal might be well attributed
	to survive in a forest environment -> lower chance of being spotted, compared to an open field environment)
	2. Different sources of nutrients -> maybe use the trees and bushes that already populate the world, or maybe just different biomes with different tiles have
	differing resources -> wheat, grass, idk
	3?. Map partitions -> partition the world into areas (maybe just chunks).. the use would be around establishing animal territories -> a predator will patrol its 
	territory and not stray too far out, if not driven by necessity.... could also be implemented with direct coordinates and a radius or something to avoid this.

8. There are many attributes that are balanced with increased energy consumption for the animal. Example is max_velocity where the faster an animal is moving at
the moment, the faster it depletes its' energy values. How much value is placed on moving quickly will be determined by the animals' needs.
The interesting idea with this is a World_Variable approach, where we can set these energy consumption rules for the whole world, and we can then detect what attributes
are favored depending on their energy price. So we could have one world where your curr_velocity consumes curr_velocity squared of energy, or one where it only consumes 
curr_velocity. There are many such attributes, and they can be studied directly or be generated at random upon initialization of the world to produce a unique world 
for our animals.

9. The pure day hypothesis:
Logic: I am interested in the evolution of species that ultimately stem from the base of Carnivore/Herbivore binary that initializes the world. Adding a night cycle would
add unnecessary complexity to this goal, and so the focus would instead be a never ending play.
Implementation: Animals consume energy with their actions where the ammount that is consumed per action is dependant on many variables e.g. for movement this would be the animals' 
mass + curr_velocity. An animal though consumes energy even when idle(like maintaining body temperature etc.), so the goal is to find a way to maintain ones' energy levels,
while ensuring one does not get eaten. This approach would by neccesity sacrifice some complexity e.g. nocturnal animals.
Note: Animals gain energy by converting their "stored" resources such as food/hydration, a proccess that takes time, meaning animals will be less likely to do "dangerous"(stressful) 
actions while low on energy(something that could be overcome by neccesity e.g. lack of stored resources).


IMPORTANT:
Focus: 
	1. Animals at initialization seen as archetypal carnivores/herbivores, with the focus being on them adapting to climates and each other, in so 
	doing creating geneticaly distinct "species" -> seen as Herbivore+num as the animals diverge, to Herbivore.num+num to follow
	This could then be used to "study" adaptations as they happened in a changing world/climate, which could provide easy graphs and some "optimal"
	qualities that can be observed throughout the data.
	2. 
	
MAP GENERATION STEPS:
	1. Temperature-based Tile Placement
	This step defines the primary biome type of each tile, serving as a backdrop for the additional features that will be added in the following steps.
	As you've mentioned, tiles will be categorized based on a temperature range (e.g., Tundra, Taiga, Temperate, Tropical, Desert).

	2. Lake Generation
	Lakes could be generated based on a few principles:

	Low Points: They naturally form in depressions or low points. If you had altitude in your generation, this would be straightforward:
	where altitude is below a certain threshold, and within certain temperature ranges, you create a lake.

	Cluster Generation: Without altitude, you can still generate clusters of water tiles to represent lakes. One way to do this is to randomly select a "seed" point on the map 
	and then grow a cluster around this point by adding adjacent water tiles. The size and shape of the lake can be determined by randomly deciding how many tiles to add, and in which direction to expand.

	3. Vegetation via Moisture Levels
	After setting the primary tile type and adding lakes, you layer vegetation based on the moisture level:

	DRY: Scatter shrubs and bushes sporadically. This could also include cacti in desert areas.

	MODERATE: A mix of trees and shrubbery. In forests, trees would dominate, whereas in grassland or savannah-like biomes, trees would be more sparse.

	MOIST: Lush vegetation with various tree types, including special trees, regular trees, and occasional underbrush or bushes. Depending on your game's needs, you could also 
	introduce other elements like vines, moss-covered rocks, or other unique vegetation elements for these very wet areas.

	Additional Considerations:

	Lake Proximity and Moisture: Areas surrounding lakes could have elevated moisture levels, meaning they're more likely to have lush vegetation even if the larger biome is typically dry.

	Transitional Areas: Consider creating transitional tiles or methods to blend between two very different biomes. This would prevent stark contrasts between, for example, a desert and a jungle.

	Noise & Randomness: Make use of noise functions or randomness to ensure that vegetation isn't uniformly distributed. This can make your world feel more organic and less grid-like.

	Visual Indicators for Lakes: If lakes are being generated in colder areas (like Tundra), they could be represented as frozen or having patches of ice. In tropical or warm regions, lakes could 
	have distinct features like lily pads or specific water plants.
	
	
ABANDONED IDEAS:
2. During the day the animals try to fulfill their "quotas" for food/hydration, in search of which they will deplete their energy.
Energy is gained during the night when (currently) all animals will be resting, or it can be gained after an animal fills its values, 
after which it starts resting (during the day resting will provide less of an increase in the animals' energy).

3a. After depleting ones' energy storage, the animal goes into a DRAINED state, where it slowly regains energy, but is vulnerable 
to any and all predators. After a certain threshold of energy is attained in this state, the animal is free to do as it likes once again.


IMPLEMENTED IDEAS:
3b. After depleting ones' food/hydration, the animal dies, leaving its corpse for a very short ammount of time with a large penalty for 
the ammount of food that can be gained from the corpse by predators.
